chore(grid): refactor export notes (#2835)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/grid/export/overview.md

---
title: Overview
page_title: Grid - Export Overview
description: Export basics for the Grid for Blazor.
slug: grid-export-overview
tags: telerik, blazor, grid, export
published: True
position: 1
---

# Blazor Grid Export

The Grid for Blazor provides a built-in functionality to export the data to:
* [CSV](slug:grid-export-csv)
* [Excel](slug:grid-export-excel)
* [PDF](slug:grid-export-pdf)

Before proceeding to the dedicated export articles, ensure you are familiar with the following specifics:

## How the Export Works

* If the Grid is using `OnRead` and is exporting all pages, it will fire an additional `OnRead` event at the time of exporting, with a request `PageSize` of `0`. This will enable the component to obtain all data.

> * The time for export will be longer if the Grid has a lot of records and/or in Client-side Blazor (WebAssembly) where all the code runs in the browser and, at the time of writing, is considerably slower than server-side Blazor, and it only has one actual thread. While the file is being generated, the UI will be unresponsive, so you may want to [show a loading sign to the user during the export process](slug:grid-kb-show-loader-while-exporting).

Reviewer: This is impossible to read. Maybe split it into sub-bullets. For example:

```suggestion
* While the file is being generated, the UI will be unresponsive. For longer exports, you may want to [show a loading sign to the user during the export process](slug:grid-kb-show-loader-while-exporting).
* You might experience longer export times:
    * When the Grid has a lot of records. (Note from Iva: try and be more specific here. What is a lot?)
    * In client-side Blazor (WebAssembly) where all the code runs in the browser (at the time of writing client-side Blazor is considerably slower than server-side Blazor and it only has one actual thread).
```

## Requirements

> * With Server-side Blazor, the file may become larger than the default SignalR connection limit, and this can disconnect the client and result in an error. Generally, this requires quite a lot of data to happen, but you may need to increase the size limit of the connection in the `ConfigureServices` method of your `Startup.cs` file, for example:

Reviewer: This does not seem like a requirement to me, but rather a specific way of working or a limitation to be addressed.

Author: I've listed this under requirements as the developer must perform the listed step to enable the export of large files to happen. I imagine a limitation would be something that cannot be achieved while here we have a required step for something to happen.

````C#.skip-repl
services.AddServerSideBlazor().AddHubOptions(o =>
{
    o.MaximumReceiveMessageSize = 1024 * 1024; // 1MB
});
````

## Limitations

> * Templates are not exported, because there is no provision in the framework for getting them at runtime. If a column, header or group header/footer has a template or aggregates, it will be ignored. The headers will be the `Title` of the column, the data is the data from the `Field`. If you need additional information, see if you can add it in a Field in the model, or create your own file. Find a <a href="https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor/1485764-customize-the-Pdf-file-before-it-gets-to-the-client" target="_blank">project example on how to generate your own exported file</a>. Find additional information on how to [export an image that is rendered in a Grid column template](slug:grid-export-image-column-excel).

Reviewer: Note how you're switching between tenses in your second sentence "the headers will be, the data is". Stick to either.

> 

Reviewer: Any particular reason for the empty lines between the bullets?

> * `bool` fields are exported as `TRUE` or `FALSE` strings, because there is no native boolean data type in exported format and these string values are the most common ones used in data and macros.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `bool` fields are exported as `TRUE` or `FALSE` strings, because there is no native boolean data type in the exported formats and these string values are the most common ones used in data and macros.
```

> * Date and number formats are exported with the following format: `mm/dd/yyyy hh:mm:ss` plus the current app culture AM/PM specifier for dates, and `Convert.ToDouble(value)` for numbers (which uses the current thread culture). The Excel date formats are different than .NET date formats and Excel may not always recognize the column as dates, for example, if the entire date format from the .NET culture is used. To customize the date and number formats, use the [Export Events](slug: grid-export-events).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Date and number formats are exported in the following format: `mm/dd/yyyy hh:mm:ss` plus the current app culture AM/PM specifier for dates, and `Convert.ToDouble(value)` for numbers (which uses the current thread culture). The Excel date formats are different than .NET date formats and Excel may not always recognize the column as dates, for example, if the entire date format from the .NET culture is used. To customize the date and number formats, use the [Export Events](slug: grid-export-events).
```

This part sounds odd to me, but may be completely valid "Excel may not always recognize the column as dates". When I read it, I wonder about "the column" - which column is it?

> * The Grid exports only `<GridColumn>` instances. Other types of columns are not exported, for example command, checkbox, hierarchy, group and row-drag columns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Grid exports only `<GridColumn>` instances. Other types of columns are not exported (for example: command, checkbox, hierarchy, group and row-drag columns).
```

## Customization

> The Grid allows customizing the exported files - determine the desired data to be exported, changing the number/date formats and more. For such customizations, [handle the export events](slug:grid-export-events).

Reviewer: You're switching between infinitive and gerund in your examples. Choose one form for better readability and stick to it.

---
title: Overview
page_title: Grid - Export Overview
description: Export basics for the Grid for Blazor.
slug: grid-export-overview
tags: telerik, blazor, grid, export
published: True
position: 1
---

# Blazor Grid Export

The Grid for Blazor provides a built-in functionality to export the data to:
* [CSV](slug:grid-export-csv)
* [Excel](slug:grid-export-excel)
* [PDF](slug:grid-export-pdf)

> Before proceeding to the dedicated export articles, ensure you are familiar with the following specifics:

Reviewer 2: "specifics" is repeated

```suggestion
Before proceeding to the dedicated export articles, ensure you are familiar with the following information:
```

## How the Export Works

The Grid export feature has the following specifics:

* If the Grid is using `OnRead` and is exporting all pages, it will fire an additional `OnRead` event at the time of exporting, with a request `PageSize` of `0`. This will enable the component to obtain all data.
* The time for export will be longer if:

>     * The Grid has a lot of records and/or 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * The Grid has a lot of records.
```

>     * The Grid is in a Client-side Blazor (WebAssembly) where all the code runs in the browser. At the time of writing, it is considerably slower than server-side Blazor, and it only has one actual thread.

Reviewer 2: We used both terms in the dawn of Blazor, but I don't think this is necessary anymore, unless you want some specific SEO. No need for "considerably slower", the customers can decide for themselves.

```suggestion
    * The Grid is in a WebAssembly app where all the code runs in the browser and in one thread.
```

>tip While the file is being generated, the UI will be unresponsive, so you may want to [show a loading sign to the user during the export process](slug:grid-kb-show-loader-while-exporting).

## Requirements

> The Grid export feature has the following requirements:
> 
> * With Server-side Blazor, the file may become larger than the default SignalR connection limit, and this can disconnect the client and result in an error. Generally, this requires quite a lot of data to happen, but you may need to increase the size limit of the connection in the `ConfigureServices` method of your `Startup.cs` file, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In server-side Blazor apps, the file may become larger than the default SignalR message size limit. This can disconnect the client and result in an error. You may need to [increase the maximum SignalR message size](slug:common-kb-increase-signalr-max-message-size).
```

> 
> ````C#.skip-repl
> services.AddServerSideBlazor().AddHubOptions(o =>
> {
>     o.MaximumReceiveMessageSize = 1024 * 1024; // 1MB
> });
> ````

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Limitations

The Grid export feature has the following limitations:

> * Templates are not exported, because there is no provision in the framework for getting them at runtime. If a column, header or group header/footer has a template or aggregates, it is be ignored. The headers are the `Title` of the column, the data is the data from the `Field`. If you need additional information, see if you can add it in a Field in the model, or create your own file. Find a <a href="https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor/1485764-customize-the-Pdf-file-before-it-gets-to-the-client" target="_blank">project example on how to generate your own exported file</a>. Find additional information on how to [export an image that is rendered in a Grid column template](slug:grid-export-image-column-excel).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Templates are not exported, because there is no provision in the framework for getting `RenderFragment` content at runtime. Thus, column, header or group header/footer templates are ignored. The headers in the exported file match the `Title` of the column. The exported values match the data from the column `Field`. If you need additional information, see if you can add it to a property in the model, or create your own file. Find a [project example on how to generate your own exported file](https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor/1485764-customize-the-Pdf-file-before-it-gets-to-the-client). Find additional information on how to [export an image that is rendered in a Grid column template](slug:grid-export-image-column-excel).
```

* `bool` fields are exported as `TRUE` or `FALSE` strings, because there is no native boolean data type in the exported formats and these string values are the most common ones used in data and macros.

> * Date and number formats are exported in the following format: `mm/dd/yyyy hh:mm:ss` plus the current app culture AM/PM specifier for dates, and `Convert.ToDouble(value)` for numbers (which uses the current thread culture). The Excel date formats are different than .NET date formats and Excel may not always recognize the column as dates, for example, if the entire date format from the .NET culture is used. To customize the date and number formats, use the [Export Events](slug: grid-export-events).

Reviewer 2: Split this to two separate bullets for dates and numbers.

* The Grid exports only `<GridColumn>` instances. Other types of columns are not exported (for example: command, checkbox, hierarchy, group and row-drag columns).

## Customization

> The Grid allows customization of the exported files - determine the desired data to be exported, changing the number/date formats and more. For such customizations, [handle the export events](slug:grid-export-events).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Grid allows customization of the exported files. You can determine the desired data to be exported, change the number and date formats, and more. For such customizations, [handle the export events](slug:grid-export-events).
```
